[#268] Google/Facebook source documentation (#301)
airyhq/airy: docs/docs/sources/google.md

---
title: Google Source

> sidebar_label: Google Source

Reviewer: we should drop source

---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: I would drop

> The Google source provides a channel of communication between your Google Business Location and your running instance of the airy core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Google source provides a channel of communication between your Google Business Location and your running instance of the Airy Core Platform.
```

Like for any other source you must connect a channel first using the [channels
connection endpoint](api/http.md#connecting-channels) and setting the `source`
field in the request payload to `google`. The token parameter must be the token provided by Facebook.

## Configuration

First step is to copy the Google Service Account file provided by Google to `infrastructure/airy.conf` as a one line string

```
GOOGLE_SA_FILE=<CONTENT OF THE FILE>
```

> As a security measure, every request sent by Google is signed and veryfied against your partner key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a security measure, every request sent by Google is signed and verified against your partner key.
```

> After fetching it from the Google Business account, set the environment variable `GOOGLE_PARTNER_KEY` with the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must also set the environment variable `GOOGLE_PARTNER_KEY` to your partner key
```

> ## Events
> 
> ```json5
> POST /google
> ```
> 
> Those events will be processed and turned into messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the verification process has been completed, Google will immediately start sending events to your Airy Core Platform instance.
```

---
title: Google
sidebar_label: Google
---

The Google source provides a channel of communication between your Google Business Location and your running instance of the Airy Core Platform.

## Configuration

First step is to copy the Google Service Account file provided by Google to `infrastructure/airy.conf` as a one line string

```
GOOGLE_SA_FILE=<CONTENT OF THE FILE>
```

As a security measure, every request sent by Google is signed and verified against your partner key.
You must also set the environment variable `GOOGLE_PARTNER_KEY` to your partner key

Once the verification process has been completed, Google will immediately start sending events to your Airy Core Platform instance.

## Connecting a channel

Connects a Google Business Account to an user account.

```
POST /channels.connect
```

> - `source` MUST be `google`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source` *must* be `google`
```

- `source_channel_id` The id of your Google Business Message [agent](https://developers.google.com/business-communications/business-messages/reference/business-communications/rest/v1/brands.agents#Agent). 
- `token` leave empty. To allow authentication you must provide a [Google service account key file](https://developers.google.com/business-communications/business-messages/guides/quickstarts/prerequisite-setup) in your runtime configuration.

```json5
{
  "source": "google",
  "source_channel_id": "gbm-id",

>   "name": "My custom name for this page", // optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "name": "My custom name for this location", // optional
```

>   "name": "My custom name for this page", // optional

Reviewer 2: Ah name here is actually not optional, because we do not fetch the agent name. Sorry missed this! 😬

>   "image_url": "https://example.org/custom-image.jpg" // optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "image_url": "https://example.com/custom-image.jpg" // optional
```

}
```

**Sample Response**

```json5
{

> 	"id": "channel-uuid-1",
>     "name": "My custom name for this page",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "id": "channel-uuid-1",
    "name": "My custom name for this location",
```

>     "image_url": "https://example.org/custom-image.jpg",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "image_url": "https://example.com/custom-image.jpg",
```
